---
location: justeat
meetup: 260846894
hosts:
  - zainabali
  - tamerabdulradi
time:
  start: 2019-08-21T18:30:00
  end: 2019-08-21T20:30:00
events:
  - name: Do fish have legs? Implementing DSLs
    speaker: yilinwei
    tags:
      - functional
      - types
    recording: https://youtu.be/F9Ah8Cx4RkM
    slides: https://yilinwei.gitlab.io/domain-for-all/#1
  - name: mockito-scala, what it is and how to get the most out of it
    speaker: brunobonnano
    recording: https://youtu.be/MARrVJOXyc4
    tags:
      - testing
---
# Welcome

Join us at Just Eat for another round of London Scala Talks! This month, we'll be hearing from
Yilin Wei on type theory in DSLs and Bruno Bonnano on mockito-scala. We look forward to seeing you!

# Schedule

| Item                                                        | Start    | End      |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | -------  | -------- |
| Do fish have legs? Implementing DSLs                        | 18:30:00 | 19:40:00 |
| Break                                                       | 19:40:00 | 19:50:00 |
| mockito-scala, what it is and how to get the most out of it | 19:50:00 | 20:30:00 |

# Do fish have legs? Implementing DSLs

## Blurb

As backend developers, we often need to expose functionality to frontend UIs. Frontend
developers demand that APIs are simple and extensible, leading to either constant upkeep or unsound, complex code.

We will walk through a case study of creating an API in Scala for searches through the use of a DSL
(Domain Specific Language). By taking inspiration from Lisp, language design and type systems,
we will implement an API which will be secure, simple and extensible.

# mockito-scala, what it is and how to get the most out of it

## Blurb

mockito-scala started as a simple wrapper of mockito-core to provide a more usable API and solve some Java-Scala
interop issues, but since then it has evolved to become a full blown Scala mocking framework that encourages Scala best practices,
provides integration with major Scala libraries and allows us to write more declarative, clearer and concise tests.
In this talk we’ll go over some of the most popular fixes/additions over the Java API and also the
new features that will make our tests better and simpler
