---
layout: post
title:  "London Scala Community Day"
date:   2019-12-06 21:08:46 +0100
categories: meetup scala workshop talks
---

Join us at [Quantexa](https://www.quantexa.com/) [near Waterloo, London](https://goo.gl/maps/tfNPfCoWqn6j6iWw9) for a weekend Community Day! 

Saturday 14th, we'll be holding workshops and presentations from 10am to 2:30pm on all things Scala.

# Agenda

Here's a rough schedule of what we're doing:

| 10:00 | Doors open.  Come along for some tea                                                     |
| 10:30 | Workshop - ScalaBridge                                                                   |
|       | Workshop - Julien Truffaut : Error handling                                              |
|       | Workshop - Dave Gurnell : Doing things in Parallel with Cats                             |
| 12:00 | Lunch                                                                                    |
| 12:45 | Workshop - Wiem Zine : ZIO                                                               |
| 12:45 | Talk - Fabio Tiriticco : Tame Crypto Events with Streaming                               |
| 13:30 | Talk - Hugh McKee: The Evolution From Monolith to Microservices to Serverless and Beyond |
| 14:15 | Close.  Let's carry on hacking in a nearby cafe                                          |

There'll be plenty more ad hoc workshops going on throughout the day - feel free to suggest your own workshops and lightning talks!

# Workshops

## ScalaBridge

Join a community for people who are underrepresented in technology to learn Scala or improve their skill in the language. We cater to all levels—really! If you've never programmed before we'll get you started. If you're an experienced Scala developer we'll help you take the next step. See https://www.scalabridgelondon.org/ for more details.

## Julien Truffaut : Error handling

They are many ways to deal with runtime errors. The easiest and most common method consists of throwing exceptions. Unfortunately, exceptions break many functional programming concepts. In this workshop, we will see what the FP arguments against exceptions are. And what the alternatives are.This workshop is an extract from [Foundation](https://github.com/fp-tower/foundation), a two-day training course focusing on the essence of functional programming in Scala.


### Remote access

If you can't make it in person, you can try and join in the [virtual classroom](https://eu.bbcollab.com/guest/7da2453e91004c53872a3f303a4e72b5).  The classroom will be ready for joiners at 10:15.

## Dave Gurnell : Doing things in Parallel with Cats

In this workshop we'll look at running operations on monads in parallel using Cats. We'll look at the nature of a monad, its cousin the "applicative", the handy `Parallel` type class, and how everything hangs together in Cats 2.x.

It you're curious or confused about combinators like `mapN`, `sequence`, and `traverse`, this is the place for you. You should emerge with a much deeper understanding of these operators and their parallel counterparts, `parMapN`, `parSequence`, and `parTraverse`. ​

To benefit from this workshop you should have experience with the `map` and `flatMap` methods that are common to many Scala data types, plus a passing (but by no means deep) understanding of Cats (a quick read of Chapters 1 and 2 of [Scala with Cats](https://underscore.io/books/scala-with-cats) will be enough).

### Remote access

If you can't make it in person, you can try and join in the [virtual classroom](https://eu.bbcollab.com/guest/758dd8bfa2294c7f9d93b8643bab2af5).  The classroom will be ready for joiners at 10:15.


# Talks

## Fabio Tiriticco : Tame Crypto Events with Streaming

How do you tame the chaotic world of cryptocurrencies, with all that data that doesn’t seem to make any sense?
The only possible answer is Reactive Systems and controlled streaming. Our goal is to find reliable patterns between events relative to a cryptocurrency (like a conference or a fork) and its relative price fluctuations. We need an always-on system that gathers this data from different sources, and we can’t afford missing data because of downtimes.
This talk covers all the steps of a reactive data project. We start with domain modeling with DDD and Event-storming, then touch on the implementation side with a backpressured toolkit like Akka Streams, run our services on Google Cloud’s Kubernetes and finally look at the data we gathered trying to find patterns.

### Fabio Tiriticco
 
Fabio is a software engineer, conference speaker, and community leader based in Amsterdam. While building his own start-up, he fell in love with Akka, Scala, and Reactive systems, so much so that he founded the 2000-member strong Reactive Amsterdam meetup group. When not in front of a screen, he enjoys long distance bike rides and finger picking his guitar.

## Hugh McKee: The Evolution From Monolith to Microservices to Serverless and Beyond

If you are a developer or an architect, the odds are that you grew up building systems that are now commonly known as monoliths. In the last few years, we've seen a significant evolutionary shift to systems composed of microservices. Today we are witnessing the birth of serverless. The rate of evolutionary change is accelerating. But what is changing, and what remains the same? In this talk, we will look at the evolution from the monolith to serverless seeking to extract the variables and the constants. We will also look at the progression from serverless to an inevitable future of frictionless computing.

### Hugh McKee

Hugh McKee is a developer advocate at Lightbend. He has had a long career building applications that evolved slowly, that inefficiently utilized their infrastructure, and were brittle and prone to failure. Hugh has learned from his past mistakes, battle scars, and a few wins. And the learning never stops. Now his focus is on helping other developers and architects build resilient, scalable, reactive, distributed systems. Hugh frequently speaks at conferences. He is the author of Designing Reactive Systems: The Role Of Actors In Distributed Architecture.
